game
====

First project for CompSci 308 Spring 2014

By: Talal Javed Qadri

I intend to build a Top Down Scrolling Shooter called 'War of the Cosmos'. The game chronicles one of the most important war of the universe. Harrpas, the rightful lords of the universe, are about to lose their war against the evil empire of BioKalar. Only one Harrpan hero remains standing against the BioKalar army; however, all hope is not lost since he is the greatest fighter pilot of all time. Our hero must destroy the enemy's missiles as well as it's squadron of DeathRays to ensure that the Harraps emerge victorius.

The game will have two levels. The player must complete the first level by destroying 10 missiles. If he loses three lives then the player will fail to complete the level; hence the player will lose the game. To complete the second and final level, the player will have to destroy five enemy DeathRays. Again, if the player loses three lives without destroying five death rays then he/she loses the game.

The game will have two modes. The player can either move left or right (the player will always remain at the bottom of the screen) or the player can shoot at objects. The first level involves shooting at missiles. These missiles will move from the top of the screen down towards the bottom of the scrren. If they hit the player then the player loses a life. If they hit the bottom of the screen then they disappear. The missiles keep on falling from the screen during the level. The second level involves DeathRays. These DeathRays also move from the top of the screen to the bottom of the screen. They keep on falling from the top during the level and if they hit the bottom of the screen then they disappear. Howvever, the player can lose lives through two ways in the second level. If the DeathRays hit the player at the bottom of the screen then the player loses a life. The DeathRays also shoot rays towards the bottom of the screen as they descend. Each DeathRay shoots the rays at a fixed frequency. If these rays hit the player then he/she lose a life. The shots fired from the player and the rays shot by the DeathRays will not collide i.e. they can pass each other and move on.

Edit on January 17:

The final game ended up being different from the inital plan. The player (a rocket ship) had the ability to move around the entire canvas. The player can shoot upwards or sideways. There are a total of two levels. The player had five lives in each level. Enemies, in the first level, are spaceships that can also shoot missiles. The player loses a life if the rocketship collides with either enemy ships or their missiles. The second level is a boss level. The boss can summon meteors and flying saucers. The saucers can also shoot plasma rays. The boss's life is shown on the screen. To win the level the boss's life has to be reduced to zero by attacking it. The player loses a life if the rocketship collides with any of the following: boss, meteor, flying saucer, and saucer's plasma rays. A special RayShot becomes available to the player during the second level after a counter, for the number of objects summoned by the boss, crosses the value 15. The player gets 10 extra points added to his score everytime the RayShot hits an enemy.
